This is very important historically because,
like we said, like I said before, movies, TV were
glamorizing SAC. And they were getting the
publicity during the 1950s as being, I guess, as
being the elite of the armed forces. Would you
agree with that? I was going to say, and probably
rightfully so. Because, you know, this was after
the war and everything was being cut back, budget
being cut back, and get back to this old bit of
during time peace where everybody fights for
their dollar to grow the budget. And, you know, it
immediately started and the Army was clamoring
for to keep so many divisions and so many tanks and
so forth. The Navy wanted to keep so many ships and
so forth. And we Air Force wanted an air defense
command as well as SAC, as well as TAC. And, you
know, somebody had to give someplace and
compromise some way. But we in the Air Force, from
the chief on down, that's where we got the basic
guidance from the chief of staff of the Air Force
that SAC And the nuclear capability, if you will,
strategic capability was top priority. And for a
while it was a little bit hard for tactical
commanders, namely air defense and tactical
command, to swallow. See, we were trying to build
up the tactical air command. I mean the air defense
command, NORAD.
Of course, this was to give warning to SAC. So you
see, there was arguments for giving us money. We
had to give warning to SAC so they could get on, so
they could do their job. So you had a rivalry right
in your arms? Rivalry is the best thing to call it,
for the dollars. Sure. Rivalry for the dollars.
And SAGE cost us billions and billions of dollars.
SAGE? SAGE, the Automatic Guidelines. Were you
yourself jealous of the Strategic Air Command? A
little bit. Looking back now, I just plain old
professional jealousy. In times I remember
making a comment, they act like they're not even in
the regular Air Force, they're a separate Air
Force. And I think that's out of temperament and
professional jealousy. Did you ever want to apply
for a SAT? I didn't like the philosophy of command
that they used in SAC. Which was? Fear.
I had served
under ex-SAC people in my subsequent career after
in the latter part of my Air Force career.
philosophy of command, and for a while it darn near
demoralized the tactical
aircraft. Fortunately, that commander didn't
stay long, and so we had another typical tactical
aircraft commander, John Displey, who took over
and got things back on an even keel. And this gets
into the philosophy of command maybe you want to
talk about later on. Well, tell me about fear.
Well, give me an example of that in the strategic
air command.
You do a job, if you have an accident, this man does
that, you're fired. You're ruined. You're career
is over. And you heard SAC commanders say that to a
man? This was the philosophy of SAC. But you
yourself heard that? Almost. Oh, yes.
Many people in airports at that time felt that. I
don't blame this on LeMay. Who do you blame it on?
Other officers in the SAC hierarchy.
I don't think that exists now. As a matter of fact,
SAC has changed now, and they don't have this
philosophy anymore. We don't have this feeling in
the Air Force anymore, to my knowledge. We know the
requirements of having SAC. There's no doubt of
the puts of And now, you know, we've even got the
intercontinental ballistic missiles, which are
still part of SAC. And to prove that we were right in
our thinking that SAC is a predominant military
power in our arsenal is that the Joint Targeting
Committee is headquartered at the SAC
headquarters, the Navy and the Air Force, under
the Commander-in-Chief of the Strategic Air
Command. So he is the top man. There's no doubt
about it. But going back to some of these things
we've talked about, I think it is professional
jealousy, but it can be expected. But it's, I don't
want to say unfounded. SAC should be recognized.
It should be glamorized. It should have gotten the
money. It should have been built up. Thank God
we've got it in the position it is right now. Thank
God. But why do you say it should have had all of
these things? Well, it was fighting for the
dollars. But I mean, why do you think it should have
been glamorized? Well, you call it glamorized,
are we using the proper word? Maybe just say
Department of Defense propaganda to
indoctrinate the people of this country to accept
it. To indoctrinate the... voters that the number
one power tell your congressman to give money to
SAC, the Air Force. You don't buy another carrier.
This is done.
And I was all for that. You thought that the Air
Force in general should, during the 1950s, should
have received more money than the Army or the Navy?
Matter of fact, because of the priority of the
importance of the, if you will, we're beginning to
think now in terms of deterrence. A rhetorical
question. What do you think turned Khrushchev's
ships around with taking missiles to Cuba?
It was the Strategic Air Command nuclear call.
Well, what about the... Navy admiral that would
respond. It was the fact that we had eight aircraft
carriers
off the coast of Cuba blocking the way of those
freighters. Well, sure. As a matter of fact, I was
part of, where was I when that happened? How would
you answer that question? Well, it was natural for
the Admiral to say that. Oh, okay. But why didn't
that Admiral do anything? He wasn't supposed to do
anything until he got directions from the
President of the United States. The President of
the United States, probably in his frantic
telephone conversation with Khrushchev, and I
don't know, I can't confirm this because I've
heard it secondhand, but I understand it was a red
telephone hotline between Khrushchev and
Kennedy. that things got really frantic and hot.
And I can imagine the things that Kenny would be
saying. Well, sure, we've got carriers out there,
but I've got my nuclear fleet ready here to take
off. Now, you turn those missiles on. Well, they
were in here at the time, weren't they? Some of them
probably were. I know that tactically we had a huge
tactical air force for all practical purposes
assembled and deployed in the southern reaches of
Florida, besides all those carriers down in the
Navy and Sea. We were prepared. That was a proof of
stage. Okay, now let's go back and talk about,
change the topic for a minute to your career.
You've been a full colonel now for about 13 years.
Sure
were. You were a full colonel from 44 to 57. That's
right.
Well, were you starting to wonder if you were ever
going to be promoted again? Oh, yeah. I was a
normal, typical colonel. It entered into my mind,
and there were two or three promotions, two or
three years before I got it, that really I did
wonder. It's typical, normal. Well, you had been
in now for 18 years in the service.
But you look at those 18 years. How long am I in those
18 years without a full colonel? That's something
unusual. See, I got in right at the start of the war,
so I was a full colonel in 1944. You'd been a full
colonel for 13 of the 18 years that you were in the
service. Right. And so I was wondering if, you
know, they passed you over so many times. I don't
think I was ever passed over. I look at it that way. I
just wasn't to be chosen yet. That's the way I look
at it. Oh, is there any possibility of jeopardy
that they might order you into retirement unless
you made Brigadier General? I never, no, I never.
That never in my mind, my career. What? Legally,
could it have happened? No, no. Okay. There's just
so many spots open. Yeah, I'm not... I'm just
wondering about this. You're asking questions
I'm answering. Just so you know, there was nothing
like that. Okay, but were you... Later on, you
know, rules and regulations were set up for
promotion. In later years, we're actually passed
over a certain number. As a matter of fact, my
brother was passed over, and that's Before he was
forced out actually by the law, he did retire.
Well, when were those retirement laws
established? I thought they were established in
the 50s.
I don't know. Well,
at any rate, that wasn't up to me. And I never
worried about it. OK. Did you want to become a
general? Oh, certainly. As a matter of fact, I had
the aspiration to become a four-star general. You
did? I'm sure I was typical. Ambitious?
You considered yourself ambitious. Oh,
absolutely. Dedicated.
Tell me about when you learned that you were going
to be promoted to brigadier general. How'd you
find out?
Let me see. How did I find that
out? I think I got a call from
a general someplace on the, well, maybe
Washington. Probably Washington. Got a call from
him. Just called me at my headquarter there at...
No, you had to be in Colorado. I said in the airport
today. I was in Colorado. Yeah, you were in
Colorado. And he called me and said,
congratulations, Charles. Something like that.
That's the first indication. I knew the list was
coming out. Who was it?
General... Four-star general. Moe Preston,
M-O-E Preston, P-R-E-S-T-O-N. I'd worked for
him. He was my boss, first boss at Northeast Air
Command up at Newton. When he called me, I think
when he called me, he was four-star general, yeah.
And congratulations. Now, I think, Terry, I think
that's the first indication. Then General
Partridge... met me in a hall, and somehow I knew, I
remember this one. General Partridge met me and
made this comment to me. I knew I was promoted. He
shook hands and said, congratulations, Charlie.
He says, you know, now you're general officer, you
ain't going to have any fun anymore. Laughed. And
then
they began to come from all directions. Was that
the same day? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. What were your
feelings when you found out? Oh, of course I was
elated. I had anticipated, you know, we, when the
promotion list was getting ready to come out for
General General's Day, the colonels, boy, they
follow them and they'll snoot and they'll do
everything, you know, to find out when they're
going to be out, you know, and they listen and do
everything you can to find out things. But I knew
the announcement was imminent and, you know, I was
waiting and then, of course, I got this earlier
call from one of the, I think it was the Pentagon, no
question it was the Pentagon, but at any rate,
someplace on the East Coast, he called me and
congratulated me. I'm pretty sure that was his
first indication. The first thing I did was went in
my office and called Doris and told her about it.
And of course it wasn't to be effective until,
when did, well, it wasn't to be effective until
later on when I was going to move. It was effective
30th of August 1957. Yeah, but the date of the
promotion was real early. That's right, yeah.
30th of August. And I was to take over command of the
25th Air Division, but they were going to send me up
there earlier before I could put the star on. Oh,
the date of rank? Yeah. It was way back earlier,
isn't it? 1st of August, 58? No, wait a minute.
Maybe that's the range you're talking about. No,
no. That's...
No, the date of rank, the temporary promotion was
August 30, 1957. That's when you could put your
star on it. Yeah, it's temporary. But I was due to go
up to, I had Simultaneously with that promotion,
and that's probably one of the reasons I promoted
it, because they were going to give me a command of
the 25th Air Division up at Tacoma,
Washington. And you had to be a Brigadier General
commander of the division. So that's part of the
reason I'm sure I was promoted. But I wanted to put
the star on and arrive as a Brigadier General. So I
asked, and as a matter of fact, I even remember
talking to, I think it was Ken Berkman about it, my
boss, and he agreed with me, and, well, we just get
you already delayed, you go up there, get your star
on first, and then you go up there. So that's where
we did that. Oh, did you? I arrived with my star on.
Great. It's more effective. More effective as far
as leadership? Yeah. And at reception, you know,
the civilian community, General Bond here,
whether it was Colonel Bond here, and I don't know
if I was in before, but he made general vision.
Sure. Now tell me about that command, 25th Air
Division. Well, that was my first command as a
general officer, and of course it was... Two
years, 57 to 59. Getting used to being a brigadier
general was almost... Getting used to being a
general officer and
was almost first priority with me from the
standpoint of my entire responsibility
commanding my Confederate agents. By the way, I
relieved a general who was commanding . Tell me
about getting used to being a general officer.
What were the problems?
Well, I don't know whether you call them problems
or not. It's just acting the part. of a general, and
I guess acting as part of what you consider to be the
ideal type of a general.
In other words, I guess all of us had in mind what a
real general was and how you would act and so forth,
and then you sort of modeled yourself after that.
At least that was my feeling, and I think many
others felt the same way.
And then how did you model yourself? Who was the
ideal general to you? Did you model yourself?
Well, see, that's it. You think of many generals
that you knew before and how they acted. Of course,
I did come from Norad where I had a great deal of
respect for General Cartridge, a very fine man who
conducted himself as a dignified, very fine man.
Didn't smoke, drank little, was a fine physical
specimen, and a would still fly an airplane. And
then I remember an old gentleman,
a hard man, hard but fair, demanded competence,
excellent performance, that type of thing, but
treated people fair. Just hard but fair. I guess
that's sort of my feeling, being hard but fair. In
other words, you have more accepted the LeMay? You
more modeled yourself after LeMay than after
Partridge? No, I won't say that. I guess a
combination of Chenault, LeMay, Partridge,
Charlie Myers, a terrific man whom I worked under,
a Northeasterly man who was went by, people knew
him as Uncle Charlie. Kind, gentle, fine old man.
Terrific.
You name it. The qualities, all the qualities that
you would, you can think of, you know, I thought of
them as various generals. And even after all that,
I guess I settled down to just being old Charlie
Bond after all, after a while. Doing what I thought
was right, handing people and making decisions.
I had a very fine, tactically oriented command. I
had one of the best air defense divisions in the
entire United States. Did you ever want to talk
about that? Did you find it difficult to assume the
role as a general? No. No. I was prepared for it.
Okay, tell me about your division. How large was
it? What was the mission?
The mission included...
I believe when I took over this command, it was
still CONAD. We hadn't actually officially
announced the NORAD organization, which would
have included part of Canada later on. When I first
took it over, I included... I take it back. It was
NORAD, yeah. My command included a line on the map.
It went up... north of Vancouver, matter of fact,
probably 30 or 40 miles, maybe 50, 60 miles north of
the Canadian border to include two or three radar
sites, and then east-west from the ocean,
extending out the ocean, you know, to include
early warning naval ships, then over to include
part of Montana, then down south, including
Idaho, then across, including the northern part
of Oregon, then out to sea again. So it was really
the northwestern sector of the United States, and
it was, if you go right straight down south of me for
the western part of the United States, I had my
division for the northwest, the 28th division for
the central part of the west coast, San Francisco
primarily, then the 27th division for the
southern part of the United States, in the west,
primarily Los Angeles. for geography-wise,
that's about the way it was lined up. And I wore two
or three hats, if you will. I was a combined
commander, General Charles Bond, commander of
the 25th NORAD Division, which included Canada. I
had a fighter squadron and two or three radars
there. I had one. I owned the base, the big base at
McCord. the little base north there called Payne
Air Force Base up towards the northern border of
the United States towards Canada. I was a tenant on
a SAC B-52 base over in western Washington at
Larson Air Force Base. I had National Guard units
at Geiger Air Force Base under me, fighter units. I
had, oh, I'd say at least five or six radar sites six
or seven right now, throughout Washington, the
state of Washington, and Oregon under me. Montana
and Idaho.
I'd say... You said you wore two or three hats. What
was your other one? My second hat was a Joint
Commander. Army and Navy. I had, by the way, I had
operational control of the Canadian Forces. I had
operational control. I didn't command them, but I
had operational control over them. I was
commander of the, joint commander of the 25th
Con-Ad Division, which included the United
States Army and the United States Air Force units.
I had Nike ground-to-air missiles,
ground-to-air missiles, surface-to-air
missiles under me. And at that time, Ajax later on
became Nike nuclear chips. And then I wore a third
hat as the Air Force commander of the 25th Air
Division, ADC, which is just the Air Force units
and radar sites. And I had operational control
over a Navy
early warning radar ship destroyer type out to the
sea off of the coast of northern Oregon and
Washington. Then I also had operational control
over what we called an AEW, Airborne Early Warning
and Control Air Force aircraft. out of air defense
command with radar flying back and forth in the
area for air-to-air, well, air coverage,
extending our radar coverage to the seaboard. So I
had quite a big organization, and I can't remember
exactly. I'd say it had to be 15,000, 20,000
people. This is a tremendous leap in
responsibility for us. How'd you like all the
additional
responsibility? Well, it's a challenge. I liked
it. I had to work. I accepted it. And my wife
detected the true dedication and the work and my
position. You know, it involved her and I found it
disgusting, the higher responsibility we had in
the Air Force and my military career. We talked
about it many times.
And of course, I was the number one Air Force man in
that area, ranking Air Force man, so I had the
leading responsibility in relation to the
civilians in the community. Yeah, tell me about
that. Did you have any problems with the
civilians? No. As a matter of fact, I've never had
any problems with any civilians in the community.
It's something you have to contend with, though,
and you have to recognize. I had some heated
arguments with a congresswoman from the state of
Oregon one time, Edith Green, about an air
defense, my air defense unit at the airport at
Portland, Oregon. She was trying to get us out of
there. Why? She just didn't want us in there. It
involved too much of a problem for the city and also
messed up the,
supposedly took occupied,
widely needed facilities for the commercial
airlines and other political reasons. I guess at
the closest I came, really, to locking horns with a
politician. But I kept my temper, and I'm glad I
did. But if I ever did dislike the congressman, the
congresswoman, the senator, that was the one. You
thought she was unreasonable? I thought she was
wrong. Of course, she had her political reasons,
and I understand the power of politics, but I had my
military responsibilities.
You remained in that job for about two years, and
then you shifted to the 28th Air Division in
California, Hamilton Air Force Base. Why'd they
shift you?
I'd been up there for couple of years, and after
you've been in the command for a while, you know,
maybe look forward to going to another one. But I
loved California, and Hamilton Air Force Base was
the most choice air base in the entire United
States. Why? One of the most beautiful,
convenient, to that lovely city of San Francisco.
Climate-wise, it was better than that rainy area
of Northwest United States and Washington, but
beautiful. and also I was very close to General
Parker who was then the commander of Western Air
Defense Force who commanded the three divisions
from the north to the south and he and I were very
close mutually respected each other and that job
came open and we liked each other and He knew I loved
Hamilton. I'd done a good job, and I'd been up in
Washington for two years, and the way things go, he
gave me the job. Well, either at Hamilton or on my
board in Washington, were there any major
problems that you had to overcome? No.
Essentially, this was the same type of job,
exactly. It was a similar type of an air division,
but in a different location.
You felt a little bit greater responsibility for
protecting, let's say, a huge area like San
Francisco versus, let's say, Seattle. But on the
other hand, Seattle had terrific aircraft
industry. And SAC bases in it. Of course, now I had
SAC bases protecting the 28th Division area. So
really, it's essentially exactly the same job. I
was living closer to my boss, my headquarter, as a
matter of fact, on the same airbag. He would come
over and see me and give me
of proper management. Same job. As a matter of
fact, I felt much more secure because of the
experience of wearing my star for a few years in the
Command and Air Division. I took over the 28th
without a problem. As a matter of fact, it was a
little bit smaller in size and units and radar
sites in the 25th Air Division. And I didn't have
the Canadians under me then.
How did you get along with the Canadians when you
were in Washington? Fine. Typical great people.
Well, were you sorry to leave Hamilton in October
1960 when you went to Italy for three years? No, I
figured I was due for an overseas assignment.
Here again, when I came up, I had a chance to take my
family. And here again, see, it was a NATO job. It
was combined. It was shape. Shape. And here I see I
was in a combined command. I was wearing a NORAD
hat. I'd been operating with Canadian forces,
another nation. I'd had experience a long, long
time. But now you were the deputy commander. Yep.
And the commander was what, a two-star general?
No, a general.
Bianchi was a lieutenant general, three-star
general in the Italian Air Force. But he was
commanding the Fifth Allied Tactical Air Force of
the
southern area of shape. What did we call it? Yeah,
north, central, and south. South Forces, what
economy is referred to them as South Forces of
NATO, which included the Army, Navy, and Air
Forces. Greeks, Turks, Italian, American,
British, you name it, NATO. In a sense, you lost
your own command to a new job. Did you resent losing
time? I figured this was definitely a step up,
because this was NATO. Sure. This was a... Allied
Tactical Air Force. I was going to an Air Force
level from a division level, so I was going on. And I
never dreamed of the problems I would have when I
took over this job. It was a, the move was a
fantastic journey. We traveled by ship with my
family on a first class USS Independence. First,
look at TB Love Boat today and see that ship. Well,
that's the type of ship we were on. Had my whole
family with me and shipped my car and all. Treated
royally. SS in the family. It wasn't an United
States ship. Well, SS, yeah. And commercial ship.
Big luxury liner. On the way we stopped at
Casablanca and got ashore. That's the first state
my wife had any foreign country and was aghast at
it. And then we stopped for a second at Gibraltar,
then on to Majorca, and then to Naples, and then to
basically Dr. Genova. We met there by accident.
some of the staff that I was taking over, and then we
drove across in a car to Vicenza, Italy, where I was
there for the next three years. Very interesting
assignment. Charlie? Yep. Do you want to change
the water? Oh, yeah.
You mentioned problems and all kinds of problems
in Italy with NATO. What were they? That I hadn't
anticipated. And you had not anticipated? What
were these problems? Well, upon arriving at
Vicenza, a little town about 30 minutes driving
west from Venice, in the northern area of Italy,
just at the foothills of the Alps, just an ideal
place, geographical-wise, in Europe, to be
assigned with my family, naturally. was the
happiest man in the world. I hadn't been there 24
hours when I met the man I was replacing, and he
briefed me on his boss, who was to be my boss,
Lieutenant General Bianchi. That is wrong.
B-I-A-N-C-H-I. If there ever was a Hitler
fascist, this man was. No kidding. The general I
relieved, a brigadier general, United States Air
Force, That's one reason he was being reassigned,
and the spot had to be filled, and it was a NATO
assignment. He wouldn't speak to General
Bianchi. He would not even go into his office. They
hated each other so much. Really? And he briefed me
on the type of man this gentleman was, and I didn't
know this. Nobody ever told me. And I was shocked.
They must have known this back at the Pentagon. I'm
sure they did. Why they assigned you? Because
you'd had so many international contacts? And had
been on combined staff, worked with other
nationals. So here was another national, a
commander that I was the vice commander on. And of
course, I learned as time went on that no wonder.
guy wouldn't speak to him, and I don't blame him.
Had I been a different person, I guess I wouldn't
have spoken with the man. But he hated, there's no
doubt this man in his heart had to hate Americans
from the standpoint of the typical jealous
battalion, hating an American. but it stemmed
from his background as a fascist, I'm sure. He was
the tactical air commander in support of General
Rommel for the African campaign against the
American and British forces. That's how high a
position he was. How the heck did he ever get a
position in charge of NATO? Well, actually, in
this position, though, and on through the end of
the war, you think, why shouldn't he be chief of
staff of the Italian Air Force? And, you know, way
high up, But he wasn't, and he was only lieutenant
colonel. But it's obvious his personality and
just
a nasty, nasty, arrogant, fierce, savage man, his
personality. Not physically, but nasty in his
talk. He could speak perfect English, but proud of
it. A typical arrogant, strutting, ill-duty
type. I hated his guts. Put that in there. That's
awfully strong. And
subsequently, of course, I found out that he was
known all over NATO as a respected person. And your
old Charlie Bond was his vice commander. How did he
get the job of being in charge of the southern
section of NATO with that personality? He had had
previous jobs in NATO headquarters, but it's
obviously because of his personality he couldn't
get along. They didn't want him. But he was a very
capable tactical commander. There's no doubt
there wasn't another general in the Italian Air
Force that could even touch him in tactical
experience and know-how. They couldn't. There
was none that I knew of or met that could even touch
him. He was, no doubt, because of his experience
and background. He had been in the Civil War in
Spain, on the side of the Pacific. At times he'd get
off on the Il Duce, and no doubt he still respected
the Il Duce. What did he say about it? He just
respected him. Nothing direct about, I love the
man, nothing like that, but his conversation
always about the Il Duce was, you know, it was
obvious that... He's a fascist. How could you
tell? He was a typical, anything you've ever read
about the arrogant, fascist type of person, this
is the way he acted. You've seen movies of him.
You've seen movies of Ducey, El Ducey. This is the
way he acted. This was his personality. He would,
in inspecting troops walking down a line, he'd
actually strut like maybe the way a movie star
would strut, you know, over, just emoting. You can
tell the way I'm talking how I felt about the man.
My first reception by him was, had I not been told
about the man, I would have never suspected it the
first time I met him. I was received in his office
with open arms, very polite, very condescending,
And looking back now, getting ready to shove the
knife up my rear end and down my back. Literally
hated Americans.
My boss down the line, American Air Force, United
States Air Force's wife, Lieutenant General
Swafford, who was Commander Air South, actually
was commander of him, see, in the NATO command.
Commander Air South was the Air Force component of
AFSAL, which was the southern region of Europe of
the NATO command, vis-a-vis AFSANT, Armed Forces
Central Europe, and AFNORTH, Armed Forces
Northern Europe. That was NATO, in effect. Then,
of course, you had some other commands. But
essentially, that was Europe. I was vice
commander of the 5th Allied Tactical Air Force
under air air force's south general swafford who
was always an uh american general that's the way
the village were assigned the commander of the
fifth a-tap was essentially the italian air force
italy so naturally it was italian general the
commander of the sixth a-tap uh the other air force
of the uh air south was in izmir turkey and uh was
commanded by a edict, an agreement, by an American
general, American Air Force general. That was a
lineup. And it consisted of the Greek and Turkish
Air Forces.
Fifth ATF and Sixth ATF. Immediately to our north
in Central Forces was the Fourth ATF, which was
also commanded by an American Air Force general.
But that's the way the setup was. Were most of your
problems on this job caused by Bianchi? Oh,
absolutely. I didn't have any problem whatsoever
in Italy. As far as the job itself was concerned,
were there any problems, or were they all this man?
Oh, there were some problems in cooperation with
the Italian Army. I think probably caused by the
feelings of the United States Army component,
which was really a surface-to-surface missile
unit at Pachinza, a nuclear-tipped outfit, and
working with an Italian counterpart of the same
type of an outfit, where really they could help
instruct them and train them and so forth. And they
were the members of the Army forces. of AFSAL,
Armed Forces of the South. And the Army General of
the Italian Army and General Bianchi, the Air
Force commander, they had jealousy, very
obvious, much more so than those of, let's say, the
Army and the Air Force, the United States forces,
let's say, back in the United States. We didn't
know what professional jealousy was. You see that
over there. But that was their problem, really,
sir. It wasn't my problem. Administrative-wise,
see, General Bianchi, administration-wise, he
had nothing to do with me and about 10
or 15, maybe 12, 15 or 20 officers and airmen of the
United States Air Forces was also assigned to this
headquarters and part of his staff. Essentially,
The 5th Allied Tactical Air Force was an American
staffed outfit to do the work for NATO. But it was an
Italian Air Force General that commanded the 5th
General. And the Chief of Staff was an Italian Air
Force Brigadier General. But the Vice Commander,
number two, was an American General Meade. At that
time, a Brigadier General. And the slot had always
been a Brigadier General. That's what it called
for in the organization. Give me some examples of
some of the problems you had with this man. He
didn't like
for my driver to come up in front of the
headquarters building and let me out. which was
facing the ramp of the little airport we had. He
didn't like for my driver, for instance, to bring
me up in the morning and let me get out of my car the
same way his driver brought him up and let him get
out of the car. I didn't know this irritated him for
about a month. And finally, he just called me in and
told me that he would prefer that I come up in the
back of the building.
This was really the first time that he directed me
to do something. It was really a matter of
administration, however it pertained to
discipline, command, and control. So I didn't
argue with him. And I said, all right. You said, all
right. Oh, yeah. I didn't argue with him. I said,
OK. OK. But it irritated me. And I turned around and
walked out of there. I didn't follow this
instruction. Oh, you didn't? No. I got to think
about it, and I thought, I'm not going to do this.
I'm a deputy commander of this company. And I can
see now what my forerunner, I forget his name,
general somebody, I can see what he means now. So I
might as well take the bit in my mouth right at the
outset here. But pretty soon I won't be speaking to
this guy. So the next day I came up to Barclay
Fronikin and got out of the car. This went on for
about a week and he'd seen me. Probably one day an
airman comes in,
Comandante Vaughn, General Bianchi would like to
see you. A very polite aide. So I walked in and I
walked